Added spec changes for Image Extension (#267)
buildpacks/spec: image-extension.md

# Image Extension Interface Specification

This document specifies the interface of image extensions.

Image extensions are dynamically-generated or static build-time and runtime modules that mutate the pre-build base image.

## Table of Contents

<!-- Using https://github.com/yzhang-gh/vscode-markdown to manage toc -->

## Image Extension API Version

> This document specifies Image Extension API version `0.1`.

Author: Per @sclevine, we should not introduce a new API version, but instead tie this to one of the existing APIs. We also need to address this in the `extension.toml`

Image Extension API versions:
 - MUST be in form `<major>.<minor>` or `<major>`, where `<major>` is equivalent to `<major>.0`
 - When `<major>` is greater than `0` increments to `<minor>` SHALL exclusively indicate additive changes

## Image Extension Interface

An image extension is used to apply a `Dockerfile` at the platform's discretion.

The image extensions MAY contain a `/bin/build` and `/bin/detect` executable.

> Each extensions MUST have an `extension.toml` file in its root directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each extension MUST have an `extension.toml` file in its root directory.
```

> Extensions participate in the buildpack [detection](#detector) process, with the same `UID`, `GID`, and interface for `//bin/detect`. However:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Extensions participate in the buildpack [detection](#detector) process, with the same `UID`, `GID`, and interface for `/bin/detect`. However:
```

> - Detection is optional for extensions, and they are assumed to pass detection when it is not present. A `/bin/detect` that exits with a 0 exit code passes detection, and fails otherwise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Detection is optional for extensions, and they are assumed to pass detection when `/bin/detect` is not present. A `/bin/detect` that exits with a 0 exit code passes detection, and fails otherwise.
```

- Extension's `/bin/build` MUST NOT write to the app directory.
- Extension's `/bin/build` MAY be executed in parallel.
- The buildpack `<layers>` directory MUST be replaced by an `<output>` directory.
- If an extension is missing `/bin/build`, the extension root MUST be treated as a pre-populated `<output>` directory.

After `/bin/build` executes, the `<output>` directory MAY contain
- `build.toml`, with the same contents as a normal buildpack's `build.toml`, but
  - With an additional `args` table array with `name` and `value` fields that are provided as build args to `build.Dockerfile` or `Dockerfile`
- `launch.toml`, with the same contents as a normal buildpack's `launch.toml`, but
  - Without the `processes` table array
  - Without the `slices` table array
  - With an additional `args` table array with `name` and `value` fields that are provided as build args to `run.Dockerfile` or `Dockerfile`
- Either `Dockerfile` or either or both of `build.Dockerfile` and `run.Dockerfile`. The `build.Dockerfile`, `run.Dockerfile`, and `Dockerfile` target the builder image, runtime base image, or both base images, respectively.

> If no Dockerfiles are present, `//bin/build` may still consume build plan entries and add metadata to `build.toml`/`launch.toml`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If no Dockerfiles are present, `/bin/build` may still consume build plan entries and add metadata to `build.toml`/`launch.toml`.
```

`Dockerfile`s MUST be applied to their corresponding base images after all extensions are executed and before any regular buildpacks are executed. `Dockerfile`s MUST be applied in the order determined during buildpack detection.

> All `Dockerfile`s are provided with `base_image` and `build_id` args.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All `Dockerfile`s MUST be provided with `base_image` and `build_id` args.
```

> The `base_image` arg allows the Dockerfile to reference the original base image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `base_image` arg MUST be the original base image.
```

> The `build_id` arg allows the Dockerfile to invalidate the cache after a certain layer and must be defaulted to `0`. The executor of the Dockerfile will provide the `build_id` as a UUID (this eliminates the need to track this variable).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `build_id` arg MUST be a UUID. This allows the Dockerfile to invalidate the cache after a certain layer.
```

When the `$build_id` arg is referenced in a `RUN` instruction, all subsequent layers will be rebuilt on the next build (as the value will change).

> Build args specified in `build.toml` are provided to `build.Dockerfile` or `Dockerfile` (when applied to the build-time base image).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build args specified in `build.toml` MUST be provided to `build.Dockerfile` or `Dockerfile` (when applied to the build-time base image).
```

> Build args specified in `launch.toml` are provided to `run.Dockerfile` or `Dockerfile` (when applied to the runtime base image).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build args specified in `launch.toml` MUST be provided to `run.Dockerfile` or `Dockerfile` (when applied to the runtime base image).
```

> A runtime base image may indicate that it preserves ABI compatibility by adding the label `io.buildpacks.rebasable=true`. In the case of builder-specified Dockerfiles, `io.buildpacks.rebasable=false` is set automatically on the base image before a runtime Dockerfile is applied and must be explicitly set to `true` if desired. If multiple Dockerfiles are applied, all must set `io.buildpacks.rebasable=true` for the final value to be `true`.

Reviewer: I hope I captured it correctly. I found the existing wording a little confusing.

> A runtime base image may indicate that it preserves ABI compatibility by adding the label `io.buildpacks.rebasable=true`. In the case of builder-specified Dockerfiles, `io.buildpacks.rebasable=false` is set automatically on the base image before a runtime Dockerfile is applied and must be explicitly set to `true` if desired. If multiple Dockerfiles are applied, all must set `io.buildpacks.rebasable=true` for the final value to be `true`.

Reviewer: When we get to the point of pulling apart "buildpack" and "platform" versions of this file, the first sentence is probably a buildpack concern whereas the second one is a platform concern.

```
ARG base_image
FROM ${base_image}
ARG build_id=0

LABEL io.buildpacks.image.distro=ubuntu
LABEL io.buildpacks.image.version=18.04
LABEL io.buildpacks.rebasable=true

ENV CNB_USER_ID=1234
ENV CNB_GROUP_ID=1235

RUN groupadd cnb --gid ${CNB_GROUP_ID} && \
  useradd --uid ${CNB_USER_ID} --gid ${CNB_GROUP_ID} -m -s /bin/bash cnb

USER ${CNB_USER_ID}:${CNB_GROUP_ID}

COPY genpkgs /cnb/image/genpkgs
```

`run.Dockerfile` for use with the example `app.run.Dockerfile.out` extension that always installs the latest version of curl:
```
ARG base_image
FROM ${base_image}
ARG build_id=0

RUN echo ${build_id}

RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y curl && rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/*
```
(note: this Dockerfile disables rebasing, as OS package installation is not rebasable)

`run.Dockerfile` for use with the example `app.run.Dockerfile.out` extension that installs a special package to /opt:
```
ARG base_image
FROM ${base_image}
ARG build_id=0

LABEL io.buildpacks.rebasable=true

RUN curl -L https://example.com/mypkg-install | sh # installs to /opt
```
(note: rebasing is explicitly allowed because only a single directory in /opt is created)

## Data Format

### Files

> #### `extension.toml` (TOML)

Reviewer: We should also mention (somewhere) that meta-buildpacks may not contain extensions.
